# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis

---
## TECHNICAL REPORT

For my analysis in partnership with Bobby, I have been tasked with helping the corporate managers at Pewlett-Hackard in planning a new initiative to help lesson the blow of retiring employees. Part of the problem at Pewlett Hackard that I am trying to solve is that the company has a large number of employees that are going to be retiring in the very near future, and the company wants that process to be as smooth as possible. In order to accomplish this, Pewlett-Hackard wants to create a mentorship program where employees that are close to retiring will have the opportunity to transition to part-time work so that they can help mentor the incoming employees. My job has been to help the creators of the program to get a sense of how many people are retiring and what their titles and salary info are, and also to figure out which employees are eligible to join the mentorship program

---
## STEPS TAKEN
In order to conduct my analysis, first I needed to create a table that showed off how many people for each title where getting close to retirement. In order to do this, first I needed to join the employees table and the dept_emp table to create a placeholder table that would group together employees and a "to_date" by birth year. THis way, I would have all of the employees around retirement age. Next, I had to join the titles table with the placeholder table so that I could now get the employees about to retire along with their titles. Finally, I created a new table out of this table and accounted for the "count" values so that I could get the titles CSV. One of the challenges I ran into while conducting this analysis was figuring out how to make sure that I was including all of the employees.

In order to get the number of employees by each title, I had to join the employees table and the titles table to match up employees and their titles. After this, all I needed to do was create another table from this join and group it by the title. The difficulty with this step was mostly that I was confused about some possible duplicates, but I will tlak about those later.

On step I needed to do was create a table that showed all of the employees that are about to retire, and include their emp_no, first and last name, title, salary, and from_date. To do this, I had to left join the dept_emp into the employees tables, and then I had to do two inner joins in order to add on the salary and the title coloumns from the salaries and titles tables. The BIG challenge from this step was that it became very clear that I needed to account for the multiple duplicates and triplicates in the data. As a result, I had to create a partitioned table which took a lot of time.

Lastly, to determine the list of eligible mentoring employees, I decided I could do two inner joins by adding rows from the titles and the dept_emp table to the employees table. One challenge I ran into was that this table also had multiple duplicates on it. I didn't like that so I copied the outline of the code from my Partitioning methiod and used it here to get rid of the duplicates.

---

### FINDINGS
The first significant finding I need to discuss is that many of the employees that are set to retire have held multiple titles while they have been working at Pewlett-Hackard. The best example of this cand be found by how I needed to partition down the table that had all of the employees who were retiring along with their titles. When calling the retirelist_titlesary table, employees like Sumant Peak would have 3 different titles. After partitioning, it waws revealed that there is a significant number of senior engineers that are getting ready to retire. I would recommend that perhaps on top of mentoring new recruits, maybe some mor eexperienced employees might be in line for a promotion? It would be easier to promote from within rather than making new hires at that level. I would definitely be interested in seeing a table that showed employees that could be in-line for a promotoion. It seems reasonable to be able to use the titles table to make tables that could show how long employees have been in a certain position, and use this data to determine promotions. From generating the mentor eligibility data I find it to be a major limitation that the eligiblity was based on the employees birth year being in the year of 1965. Age doesn't really determine if somebody would make a good mentor for that position. I believe that determining eligiblity should go further and that the table should also include data that includes how long that employee has been in the position that they would mentor. There may be  slightly younger employees that are more experienced and more fit to lead the mentorship program.
